Pure Storage Horizon Plugin
---------------------------

This OpenStack Dashboard plugin will add in deeper integration for Pure Storage
FlashArray's. It includes:

* A new Admin panel that shows configured Arrays and their current states.
* Overriden volume detail views (Admin and Project) which shows additional
  volume usage and performance information.


Requirements
------------

There is a dependency on the 'purestorage' python module which is used for
querying the FlashArray's REST API. Other than that you just need a working
Horizon installation.


Installation
------------

You will need to install and configure Horizon first

Get the horizon-pure-ui package and install it::

  git clone https://github.com/PureStorage-OpenConnect/horizon-pure-ui.git
  cd horizon-pure-ui
  sudo pip install .

If Horizon was installed to run with a virtual environment you may need to
install it with a different pip command::

  $HORIZON_DIR/tools/with_venv.sh pip install

As long as the 'horizon_pure' module is available in the PYTHON_PATH for
horizon you should be all set.

Copy the panel configuration and enabled file::

  cp -rv ./horizon_pure/enabled $HORIZON_DIR/openstack_dashboard/local/
  cp -v ./horizon_pure/local_settings.d/_9999_pure_settings.py.example $HORIZON_DIR/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.d/_9999_pure_settings.py


Configuration
-------------

We need to modify `$HORIZON_DIR/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.d/_9999_pure_settings.py`
to configure our FlashArrays. The example configuration should look something
like::

    PURE_FLASH_ARRAYS = [
        {
            # Virtual IP address or FQDN for Flash Array
            'san_ip': '10.231.128.11',

            # API Token for Flash Array
            'api_token': '661f9687-0b1e-7b0d-e07d-1e776d50f9eb',

            # The backend name for the Flash Array, typically this is the value
            # set in the "enabled_backends" section of cinder.conf
            'backend_name': 'pure-iscsi',
        },
        # Repeat for additional arrays
    ]

The basic idea is that for each Cinder backend+Pure Storage Flash Array you
provide a mapping and credential information. This file would ideally be
generated by Puppet or whatever tool is also configuring cinder.conf.

The parameters are as follows:

san_ip
  Same as the `san_ip` for the Cinder Volume Driver configuration. It will
  be the virtual ip or FQDN for the Purity management interface. It must be
  accessible by the Horizon controllers.

api_token
  Same as the `api_token` in cinder.conf. This needs to be a valid REST API
  token to issues requests to the Array.

backend_name
  This should be the same as the Volume Service configured backend name. It
  will match the value set in `enabled_backends`.


To better understand the naming, if you look at the output of
`cinder service-list`::

  +------------------+---------------------------------------------+------+---------+-------+----------------------------+-----------------+
  | Binary           | Host                                        | Zone | Status  | State | Updated_at                 | Disabled Reason |
  +------------------+---------------------------------------------+------+---------+-------+----------------------------+-----------------+
  | cinder-scheduler | cinder-init1.dev.purestorage.com            | nova | enabled | up    | 2016-10-12T20:30:25.000000 | -               |
  | cinder-volume    | cinder-init1.dev.purestorage.com@pure-iscsi | nova | enabled | up    | 2016-10-12T20:30:28.000000 | -               |
  +------------------+---------------------------------------------+------+---------+-------+----------------------------+-----------------+
  
The "Host" column for the cinder-volume binaries has the `cinder_host` and
`backend_name` in the format of `cinder_host`@`backend_name`

You may repeat these configuration dictionaries for as many backends as needed.

Restart Horizon GUI
-------------------

After any changes to the configuration file it is necessary to restart the httpd service provided by OpenStack Horizon.

For example::

  systemctl restart apache2

Uninstalling
------------

Just uninstall the python module::

  sudo pip uninstall horizon-pure

And delete the enabled and settings files::

  rm $HORIZON_DIR/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.d/_9999_pure_settings.py


Compatability
-------------

This has been tested with DevStack on master and Victoria branches. Anything else
your mileage may vary.

It is expected that this **WILL NOT** work with OpenStack Stein or earlier due to Django version support


Known Issues
------------
* An array running Purity//FA 6.0.x will show Total Reduction as "0.00 to 1" if
  FA-Files is enabled on the array.
* Using the same array in different cinder stanzas will confuse the calculations and
  the array will be double counted

Support
-------
Please file bugs and issues at the Github issues page. The code and
documentation are released with no warranties or SLAs and are intended to be
supported through a community driven process.
